CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contributing Guidelines

Thank you for your interest in contributing to our project. Whether it's a bug report, new feature, correction, or additional
documentation, we greatly value feedback and contributions from our community.

Please read through this document before submitting any issues or pull requests to ensure we have all the necessary
information to effectively respond to your bug report or contribution.

## Reporting Bugs/Feature Requests

We welcome you to use the GitHub issue tracker to report bugs or suggest features.

When filing an issue, please check existing open, or recently closed, issues to make sure somebody else hasn't already
reported the issue. Please try to include as much information as you can. Details like these are incredibly useful:

* A reproducible test case or series of steps
* The version of our code being used
* Any modifications you've made relevant to the bug
* Anything unusual about your environment or deployment

## Contributing via Pull Requests

Contributions via pull requests are much appreciated. Before sending us a pull request, please ensure that:

1. You are working against the latest source on the *main* branch.
2. You check existing open, and recently merged, pull requests to make sure someone else hasn't addressed the problem already.
3. You open an issue to discuss any significant work - we would hate for your time to be wasted.

To send us a pull request, please:

1. Fork the repository.
2. Modify the source; please focus on the specific change you are contributing. If you also reformat all the code, it will be hard for us to focus on your change.
3. Ensure local tests pass before submitting your PR:
   - `uvx ruff check .` (runs the linter to catch code quality issues)
   - `uvx ruff format .` (formats code according to project standards)
   - `uvx run —frozen pyright` (runs static type checking)

   These checks will automatically run in CI when you submit your PR, so running them locally first will save time and iterations.
4. Commit to your fork using clear commit messages.
5. Send us a pull request, answering any default questions in the pull request interface.
6. Pay attention to any automated CI failures reported in the pull request, and stay involved in the conversation.

GitHub provides additional document on [forking a repository](https://help.github.com/articles/fork-a-repo/) and
[creating a pull request](https://help.github.com/articles/creating-a-pull-request/).

### Testing with a Local Development MCP Server

To test the MCP servers using your local code, you can modify your settings as follows:

```json
    "awslabs.cdk-mcp-server": {
      "command": "uv",
      "args": [
        "--directory",
        "/Users/jimini/Documents/PACE/doc-test/mcp/src/cdk-mcp-server/awslabs/cdk_mcp_server",
        "run",
        "server.py"
      ],
      "env": {
        "FASTMCP_LOG_LEVEL": "ERROR"
      },
      "disabled": false,
      "autoApprove": []
    },
```

This configuration allows you to verify how the MCP Client interprets and responds to your tools and instructions.

### Adding a new MCP Server

Thank you for your interest in adding more functionality to AWS MCP Servers. To add a new one, we highly recommend using [Python cookiecutter](https://cookiecutter.readthedocs.io/en/stable/index.html), as it provides templates and boilerplates that you can quickly start from.

1. Fork the repository.
2. Run cookiecutter.

   ```cli
   uvx cookiecutter https://github.com/awslabs/mcp.git --checkout cookiecutters --output-dir ./src --directory python
   ```

3. Answer the cli prompted questions:

    ```cli
   [1/5] project_domain (Short Domain): # Your new MCP server name (e.g., "example" will create "example-mcp-server")
   [2/5] description (An AWS Labs Model Context Protocol (MCP) server for example):
   [3/5] instructions (Instructions for using this MCP server. This can be used by clients to improve the LLM's
   understanding of available tools, resources, etc. It can be thought of like a 'hint' to the model. For example, this
   information MAY be added to the system prompt. Important to be clear, direct, and detailed.):
   [4/5] author_name (Your Name):
   [5/5] author_email (githubusername@users.noreply.github.com):
   ```

4. Check the generated boilerplate files and start building from there.
5. Go to your MCP Server directory and add your dependencies.

   ```cli
   cd src/example-mcp-server
   uv add {your dependencies}
   ```

6. Or, directly update `pyproject.toml` to add your MCP server's dependency.

   ```toml
   dependencies = [
       "mcp[cli]>=1.6.0",
       "pydantic>=2.10.6",
       # add your dependencies here
   ]
   ```

7. Create Python virtual environment and install the dependencies.

   ```cli
   uv venv
   source .venv/bin/activate
   uv sync --all-groups
   ```

8. (Optional) If you are migrating your existing MCP server from another path, open two editors, one in the fork, one in your current MCP Server. Ensure your relative imports are correct.

9. Ensure local tests pass. If your code doesn't pass the tests, the PR checks will fail.
   - `uvx ruff check .` (linting)
   - `uvx ruff format .` (code formatting)
   - `uv run --frozen pyright` (type checking)

10. Create MCP Server documentation:
    - `README`: Ensure it conforms to the style of other READMEs, as these will be used for GitHub Pages.
    - `docs/servers`: Add a new page for your MCP Server
    - `mkdocs.yml`: Add your new page to the navigation list
    - Run `mkdocs serve` to locally build and view the site

11. Commit to your fork using clear commit messages.
12. Send us a pull request, answering any default questions in the pull request interface.
13. Pay attention to any automated CI failures reported in the pull request, and stay involved in the conversation.

## Finding contributions to work on

Looking at the existing issues is a great way to find something to contribute on. As our projects, by default, use the default GitHub issue labels (enhancement/bug/duplicate/help wanted/invalid/question/wontfix), looking at any 'help wanted' issues is a great place to start.

## Code of Conduct

This project has adopted the [Amazon Open Source Code of Conduct](https://aws.github.io/code-of-conduct).
For more information see the [Code of Conduct FAQ](https://aws.github.io/code-of-conduct-faq) or contact
opensource-codeofconduct@amazon.com with any additional questions or comments.

## Security issue notifications

If you discover a potential security issue in this project we ask that you notify AWS/Amazon Security via our [vulnerability reporting page](http://aws.amazon.com/security/vulnerability-reporting/). Please do **not** create a public github issue.

## Licensing

See the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for our project's licensing. We will ask you to confirm the licensing of your contribution.

Commit message:

chore(doc): update contributing and add developer guide

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contributing Guidelines

Thank you for your interest in contributing to our project. Whether it's a bug report, new feature, correction, or additional
documentation, we greatly value feedback and contributions from our community.

Please read through this document before submitting any issues or pull requests to ensure we have all the necessary
information to effectively respond to your bug report or contribution.

## Reporting Bugs/Feature Requests

We welcome you to use the GitHub issue tracker to report bugs or suggest features.

When filing an issue, please check existing open, or recently closed, issues to make sure somebody else hasn't already
reported the issue. Please try to include as much information as you can. Details like these are incredibly useful:

* A reproducible test case or series of steps
* The version of our code being used
* Any modifications you've made relevant to the bug
* Anything unusual about your environment or deployment

## Contributing via Pull Requests

Contributions via pull requests are much appreciated. Before sending us a pull request, please ensure that:

1. You are working against the latest source on the *main* branch.
2. You check existing open, and recently merged, pull requests to make sure someone else hasn't addressed the problem already.
3. You open an issue to discuss any significant work - we would hate for your time to be wasted. For instance. If you plan to propose a new MCP Server, please open first a new RFC issue. 

The [Developer guide](DEVELOPER_GUIDE.md) provides the steps to set up your dev environment and make sure your code is ready before you submit your pull request.

GitHub provides additional document on [forking a repository](https://help.github.com/articles/fork-a-repo/) and
[creating a pull request](https://help.github.com/articles/creating-a-pull-request/).

### Testing with a Local Development MCP Server

To test the MCP servers using your local code, you can modify your settings as follows:

```json
    "awslabs.cdk-mcp-server": {
      "command": "uv",
      "args": [
        "--directory",
        "/Users/jimini/Documents/PACE/doc-test/mcp/src/cdk-mcp-server/awslabs/cdk_mcp_server",
        "run",
        "server.py"
      ],
      "env": {
        "FASTMCP_LOG_LEVEL": "ERROR"
      },
      "disabled": false,
      "autoApprove": []
    },
```

This configuration allows you to verify how the MCP Client interprets and responds to your tools and instructions.

### Adding a new MCP Server

Thank you for your interest in adding more functionality to AWS MCP Servers. To add a new one, we highly recommend using [Python cookiecutter](https://cookiecutter.readthedocs.io/en/stable/index.html), as it provides templates and boilerplates that you can quickly start from.

1. Fork the repository.
2. Run cookiecutter.

   ```cli
   uvx cookiecutter https://github.com/awslabs/mcp.git --checkout cookiecutters --output-dir ./src --directory python
   ```

3. Answer the cli prompted questions:

    ```cli
   [1/5] project_domain (Short Domain): # Your new MCP server name (e.g., "example" will create "example-mcp-server")
   [2/5] description (An AWS Labs Model Context Protocol (MCP) server for example):
   [3/5] instructions (Instructions for using this MCP server. This can be used by clients to improve the LLM's
   understanding of available tools, resources, etc. It can be thought of like a 'hint' to the model. For example, this
   information MAY be added to the system prompt. Important to be clear, direct, and detailed.):
   [4/5] author_name (Your Name):
   [5/5] author_email (githubusername@users.noreply.github.com):
   ```

4. Check the generated boilerplate files and start building from there.
5. Go to your MCP Server directory and add your dependencies.

   ```cli
   cd src/example-mcp-server
   uv add {your dependencies}
   ```

6. Or, directly update `pyproject.toml` to add your MCP server's dependency.

   ```toml
   dependencies = [
       "mcp[cli]>=1.6.0",
       "pydantic>=2.10.6",
       # add your dependencies here
   ]
   ```

7. Create Python virtual environment and install the dependencies.

   ```cli
   uv venv
   source .venv/bin/activate
   uv sync --all-groups
   ```

8. (Optional) If you are migrating your existing MCP server from another path, open two editors, one in the fork, one in your current MCP Server. Ensure your relative imports are correct.

9. Ensure local tests pass. If your code doesn't pass the tests, the PR checks will fail.
   - `uvx ruff check .` (linting)
   - `uvx ruff format .` (code formatting)
   - `uv run --frozen pyright` (type checking)

10. Create MCP Server documentation:
    - `README`: Ensure it conforms to the style of other READMEs, as these will be used for GitHub Pages.
    - `docs/servers`: Add a new page for your MCP Server
    - `mkdocs.yml`: Add your new page to the navigation list
    - Run `mkdocs serve` to locally build and view the site

11. Commit to your fork using clear commit messages.
12. Send us a pull request, answering any default questions in the pull request interface.
13. Pay attention to any automated CI failures reported in the pull request, and stay involved in the conversation.

## Finding contributions to work on

Looking at the existing issues is a great way to find something to contribute on. As our projects, by default, use the default GitHub issue labels (enhancement/bug/duplicate/help wanted/invalid/question/wontfix), looking at any 'help wanted' issues is a great place to start.

## Code of Conduct

This project has adopted the [Amazon Open Source Code of Conduct](https://aws.github.io/code-of-conduct).
For more information see the [Code of Conduct FAQ](https://aws.github.io/code-of-conduct-faq) or contact
opensource-codeofconduct@amazon.com with any additional questions or comments.

## Security issue notifications

If you discover a potential security issue in this project we ask that you notify AWS/Amazon Security via our [vulnerability reporting page](http://aws.amazon.com/security/vulnerability-reporting/). Please do **not** create a public github issue.

## Licensing

See the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for our project's licensing. We will ask you to confirm the licensing of your contribution.
