src/cfn-mcp-server/README.md, before:

# CloudFormation MCP Server

Model Context Protocol (MCP) server that enables LLMs to directly create and manage over 1,100 AWS resources through natural language using AWS Cloud Control API with Infrastructure as Code best practices.

## Features

- **Resource Creation**: Uses a declarative approach to create any of 1,100+ AWS resources through Cloud Control API
- **Resource Reading**: Reads all properties and attributes of specific AWS resources
- **Resource Updates**: Uses a declarative approach to apply changes to existing AWS resources
- **Resource Deletion**: Safely removes AWS resources with proper validation
- **Resource Listing**: Enumerates all resources of a specified type across your AWS environment
- **Schema Information**: Returns detailed CloudFormation schema for any resource to enable more effective operations
- **Natural Language Interface**: Transform infrastructure-as-code from static authoring to dynamic conversations
- **Partner Resource Support**: Works with both AWS-native and partner-defined resources

## Prerequisites

1. Configure AWS credentials:
   - Via AWS CLI: `aws configure`
   - Or set environment variables (AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID, AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY, AWS_DEFAULT_REGION)
2. Ensure your IAM role or user has the necessary permissions (see [Security Considerations](#security-considerations))

## Installation

Here are some ways you can work with MCP across AWS, and we'll be adding support to more products including Amazon Q Developer CLI soon: (e.g. for Amazon Q Developer CLI MCP, `~/.aws/amazonq/mcp.json`):

```json
{
  "mcpServers": {
    "awslabs.cfn-mcp-server": {
      "command": "uvx",
      "args": [
        "awslabs.cfn-mcp-server@latest"
      ],
      "env": {
        "AWS_PROFILE": "your-named-profile"
      },
      "disabled": false,
      "autoApprove": []
    }
  }
}
```

If you would like to prevent the MCP from taking any mutating actions (i.e. Create/Update/Delete Resource), you can specify the readonly flag as demonstrated below:

```json
{
  "mcpServers": {
    "awslabs.cfn-mcp-server": {
      "command": "uvx",
      "args": [
        "awslabs.cfn-mcp-server@latest",
        "--readonly"
      ],
      "env": {
        "AWS_PROFILE": "your-named-profile"
      },
      "disabled": false,
      "autoApprove": []
    }
  }
}
```

or docker after a succesful `docker build -t awslabs/cfn-mcp-server .`:

```file
# ficticious `.env` file with AWS temporary credentials
AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID=ASIAIOSFODNN7EXAMPLE
AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=wJalrXUtnFEMI/K7MDENG/bPxRfiCYEXAMPLEKEY
AWS_SESSION_TOKEN=AQoEXAMPLEH4aoAH0gNCAPy...truncated...zrkuWJOgQs8IZZaIv2BXIa2R4Olgk
```

```json
  {
    "mcpServers": {
      "awslabs.cfn-mcp-server": {
        "command": "docker",
        "args": [
          "run",
          "--rm",
          "--interactive",
          "--env-file",
          "/full/path/to/file/above/.env",
          "awslabs/cfn-mcp-server:latest",
          "--readonly" // Optional paramter if you would like to restrict the MCP to only read actions
        ],
        "env": {},
        "disabled": false,
        "autoApprove": []
      }
    }
  }
```

NOTE: Your credentials will need to be kept refreshed from your host

## Tools

### create_resource
Creates an AWS resource using the AWS Cloud Control API with a declarative approach.
**Example**: Create an S3 bucket with versioning and encryption enabled.

### get_resource
Gets details of a specific AWS resource using the AWS Cloud Control API.
**Example**: Get the configuration of an EC2 instance.

### update_resource
Updates an AWS resource using the AWS Cloud Control API with a declarative approach.
**Example**: Update an RDS instance's storage capacity.

### delete_resource
Deletes an AWS resource using the AWS Cloud Control API.
**Example**: Remove an unused NAT gateway.

### list_resources
Lists AWS resources of a specified type using AWS Cloud Control API.
**Example**: List all EC2 instances in a region.

### get_resource_schema_information
Get schema information for an AWS CloudFormation resource.
**Example**: Get the schema for AWS::S3::Bucket to understand all available properties.

### get_request_status
Get the status of a mutation that was initiated by create/update/delete resource
**Example**: Give me the status of the last request I made

## Basic Usage

Examples of how to use the AWS Infrastructure as Code MCP Server:

- "Create a new S3 bucket with versioning and encryption enabled"
- "List all EC2 instances in the production environment"
- "Update the RDS instance to increase storage to 500GB"
- "Delete unused NAT gateways in VPC-123"
- "Set up a three-tier architecture with web, app, and database layers"
- "Create a disaster recovery environment in us-east-1"
- "Configure CloudWatch alarms for all production resources"
- "Implement cross-region replication for critical S3 buckets"
- "Show me the schema for AWS::Lambda::Function"

## Resource Type support
Resources which are supported by this MCP and the supported operations can be found here: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cloudcontrolapi/latest/userguide/supported-resources.html

## Security Considerations

When using this MCP server, you should consider:

- Ensuring proper IAM permissions are configured before use
- Use AWS CloudTrail for additional security monitoring
- Configure resource-specific permissions when possible instead of wildcard permissions
- Consider using resource tagging for better governance and cost management
- Review all changes made by the MCP server as part of your regular security reviews
- If you would like to restrict the MCP to readonly operations, specify --readonly True in the startup arguments for the MCP

### Required IAM Permissions

Ensure your AWS credentials have the following minimum permissions:

```json
{
    "Version": "2012-10-17",
    "Statement": [
        {
            "Effect": "Allow",
            "Action": [
                "cloudcontrol:ListResources",
                "cloudcontrol:GetResource",
                "cloudcontrol:CreateResource",
                "cloudcontrol:DeleteResource",
                "cloudcontrol:UpdateResource"
            ],
            "Resource": "*"
        }
    ]
}
```

## Limitations

- Operations are limited to resources supported by AWS Cloud Control API
- Performance depends on the underlying AWS services' response times
- Some complex resource relationships may require multiple operations
- This MCP server can only manage resources in the AWS regions where Cloud Control API is available
- Resource modification operations may be limited by service-specific constraints
- Rate limiting may affect operations when managing many resources simultaneously
- Some resource types might not support all operations (create, read, update, delete)

Commit message:

feat(new tool): Add Create CloudFormation Template tool

src/cfn-mcp-server/README.md, after:

# CloudFormation MCP Server

Model Context Protocol (MCP) server that enables LLMs to directly create and manage over 1,100 AWS resources through natural language using AWS Cloud Control API and Iac Generator with Infrastructure as Code best practices.

## Features

- **Resource Creation**: Uses a declarative approach to create any of 1,100+ AWS resources through Cloud Control API
- **Resource Reading**: Reads all properties and attributes of specific AWS resources
- **Resource Updates**: Uses a declarative approach to apply changes to existing AWS resources
- **Resource Deletion**: Safely removes AWS resources with proper validation
- **Resource Listing**: Enumerates all resources of a specified type across your AWS environment
- **Schema Information**: Returns detailed CloudFormation schema for any resource to enable more effective operations
- **Natural Language Interface**: Transform infrastructure-as-code from static authoring to dynamic conversations
- **Partner Resource Support**: Works with both AWS-native and partner-defined resources
- **Template Generation**: Generates a template on created/existing resources for a [subset of resource types](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSCloudFormation/latest/UserGuide/resource-import-supported-resources.html)

## Prerequisites

1. Configure AWS credentials:
   - Via AWS CLI: `aws configure`
   - Or set environment variables (AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID, AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY, AWS_DEFAULT_REGION)
2. Ensure your IAM role or user has the necessary permissions (see [Security Considerations](#security-considerations))

## Installation

Here are some ways you can work with MCP across AWS, and we'll be adding support to more products including Amazon Q Developer CLI soon: (e.g. for Amazon Q Developer CLI MCP, `~/.aws/amazonq/mcp.json`):

```json
{
  "mcpServers": {
    "awslabs.cfn-mcp-server": {
      "command": "uvx",
      "args": [
        "awslabs.cfn-mcp-server@latest"
      ],
      "env": {
        "AWS_PROFILE": "your-named-profile"
      },
      "disabled": false,
      "autoApprove": []
    }
  }
}
```

If you would like to prevent the MCP from taking any mutating actions (i.e. Create/Update/Delete Resource), you can specify the readonly flag as demonstrated below:

```json
{
  "mcpServers": {
    "awslabs.cfn-mcp-server": {
      "command": "uvx",
      "args": [
        "awslabs.cfn-mcp-server@latest",
        "--readonly"
      ],
      "env": {
        "AWS_PROFILE": "your-named-profile"
      },
      "disabled": false,
      "autoApprove": []
    }
  }
}
```

or docker after a succesful `docker build -t awslabs/cfn-mcp-server .`:

```file
# ficticious `.env` file with AWS temporary credentials
AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID=ASIAIOSFODNN7EXAMPLE
AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=wJalrXUtnFEMI/K7MDENG/bPxRfiCYEXAMPLEKEY
AWS_SESSION_TOKEN=AQoEXAMPLEH4aoAH0gNCAPy...truncated...zrkuWJOgQs8IZZaIv2BXIa2R4Olgk
```

```json
  {
    "mcpServers": {
      "awslabs.cfn-mcp-server": {
        "command": "docker",
        "args": [
          "run",
          "--rm",
          "--interactive",
          "--env-file",
          "/full/path/to/file/above/.env",
          "awslabs/cfn-mcp-server:latest",
          "--readonly" // Optional paramter if you would like to restrict the MCP to only read actions
        ],
        "env": {},
        "disabled": false,
        "autoApprove": []
      }
    }
  }
```

NOTE: Your credentials will need to be kept refreshed from your host

## Tools

### create_resource
Creates an AWS resource using the AWS Cloud Control API with a declarative approach.
**Example**: Create an S3 bucket with versioning and encryption enabled.

### get_resource
Gets details of a specific AWS resource using the AWS Cloud Control API.
**Example**: Get the configuration of an EC2 instance.

### update_resource
Updates an AWS resource using the AWS Cloud Control API with a declarative approach.
**Example**: Update an RDS instance's storage capacity.

### delete_resource
Deletes an AWS resource using the AWS Cloud Control API.
**Example**: Remove an unused NAT gateway.

### list_resources
Lists AWS resources of a specified type using AWS Cloud Control API.
**Example**: List all EC2 instances in a region.

### get_resource_schema_information
Get schema information for an AWS CloudFormation resource.
**Example**: Get the schema for AWS::S3::Bucket to understand all available properties.

### get_request_status
Get the status of a mutation that was initiated by create/update/delete resource.
**Example**: Give me the status of the last request I made.

### create_tempalte
Create a Cloudformation template from created or listed resources.
**Example**: Create a YAML template for those resources.

## Basic Usage

Examples of how to use the AWS Infrastructure as Code MCP Server:

- "Create a new S3 bucket with versioning and encryption enabled"
- "List all EC2 instances in the production environment"
- "Update the RDS instance to increase storage to 500GB"
- "Delete unused NAT gateways in VPC-123"
- "Set up a three-tier architecture with web, app, and database layers"
- "Create a disaster recovery environment in us-east-1"
- "Configure CloudWatch alarms for all production resources"
- "Implement cross-region replication for critical S3 buckets"
- "Show me the schema for AWS::Lambda::Function"
- "Create a template for all the resources we created and modified"

## Resource Type support
Resources which are supported by this MCP and the supported operations can be found here: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cloudcontrolapi/latest/userguide/supported-resources.html

## Security Considerations

When using this MCP server, you should consider:

- Ensuring proper IAM permissions are configured before use
- Use AWS CloudTrail for additional security monitoring
- Configure resource-specific permissions when possible instead of wildcard permissions
- Consider using resource tagging for better governance and cost management
- Review all changes made by the MCP server as part of your regular security reviews
- If you would like to restrict the MCP to readonly operations, specify --readonly True in the startup arguments for the MCP

### Required IAM Permissions

Ensure your AWS credentials have the following minimum permissions:

```json
{
    "Version": "2012-10-17",
    "Statement": [
        {
            "Effect": "Allow",
            "Action": [
                "cloudcontrol:ListResources",
                "cloudcontrol:GetResource",
                "cloudcontrol:CreateResource",
                "cloudcontrol:DeleteResource",
                "cloudcontrol:UpdateResource",
                "cloudformation:CreateGeneratedTemplate",
                "cloudformation:DescribeGeneratedTemplate",
                "cloudformation:GetGeneratedTemplate"
            ],
            "Resource": "*"
        }
    ]
}
```

## Limitations

- Operations are limited to resources supported by AWS Cloud Control API and Iac Generator
- Performance depends on the underlying AWS services' response times
- Some complex resource relationships may require multiple operations
- This MCP server can only manage resources in the AWS regions where Cloud Control API and/or Iac Generator is available
- Resource modification operations may be limited by service-specific constraints
- Rate limiting may affect operations when managing many resources simultaneously
- Some resource types might not support all operations (create, read, update, delete)
- Generated templates are primarily intended for importing existing resources into a CloudFormation stack and may not always work for creating new resources (in another account or region)
