src/bedrock-kb-retrieval-mcp-server/README.md, before:

# Amazon Bedrock Knowledge Base Retrieval MCP Server

MCP server for accessing Amazon Bedrock Knowledge Bases

## Features

### Discover knowledge bases and their data sources

- Find and explore all available knowledge bases
- Search for knowledge bases by name or tag
- List data sources associated with each knowledge base

### Query knowledge bases with natural language

- Retrieve information using conversational queries
- Get relevant passages from your knowledge bases
- Access citation information for all results

### Filter results by data source

- Focus your queries on specific data sources
- Include or exclude specific data sources
- Prioritize results from specific data sources

### Rerank results

- Improve relevance of retrieval results
- Use Amazon Bedrock reranking capabilities
- Sort results by relevance to your query

## Prerequisites

### Installation Requirements

1. Install `uv` from [Astral](https://docs.astral.sh/uv/getting-started/installation/) or the [GitHub README](https://github.com/astral-sh/uv#installation)
2. Install Python using `uv python install 3.10`

### AWS Requirements

1. **AWS CLI Configuration**: You must have the AWS CLI configured with credentials and an AWS_PROFILE that has access to Amazon Bedrock and Knowledge Bases
2. **Amazon Bedrock Knowledge Base**: You must have at least one Amazon Bedrock Knowledge Base with the tag key `mcp-multirag-kb` with a value of `true`
3. **IAM Permissions**: Your IAM role/user must have appropriate permissions to:
   - List and describe knowledge bases
   - Access data sources
   - Query knowledge bases

### Reranking Requirements

If you intend to use reranking functionality, your Bedrock Knowledge Base needs additional permissions:

1. Your IAM role must have permissions for both `bedrock:Rerank` and `bedrock:InvokeModel` actions
2. The Amazon Bedrock Knowledge Bases service role must also have these permissions
3. Reranking is only available in specific regions. Please refer to the official [documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/bedrock/latest/userguide/rerank-supported.html) for an up to date list of supported regions.
4. Enable model access for the available reranking models in the specified region.

For detailed instructions on setting up knowledge bases, see:

- [Create a knowledge base](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/bedrock/latest/userguide/knowledge-base-create.html)
- [Managing permissions for Amazon Bedrock knowledge bases](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/bedrock/latest/userguide/knowledge-base-prereq-permissions-general.html)
- [Permissions for reranking in Amazon Bedrock](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/bedrock/latest/userguide/rerank-prereq.html)

## Installation

Here are some ways you can work with MCP across AWS, and we'll be adding support to more products including Amazon Q Developer CLI soon: (e.g. for Amazon Q Developer CLI MCP, `~/.aws/amazonq/mcp.json`):

```json
{
  "mcpServers": {
    "awslabs.bedrock-kb-retrieval-mcp-server": {
      "command": "uvx",
      "args": ["awslabs.bedrock-kb-retrieval-mcp-server@latest"],
      "env": {
        "AWS_PROFILE": "your-profile-name",
        "AWS_REGION": "us-east-1",
        "FASTMCP_LOG_LEVEL": "ERROR",
        "KB_INCLUSION_TAG_KEY": "optional-tag-key-to-filter-kbs"
      },
      "disabled": false,
      "autoApprove": []
    }
  }
}
```

or docker after a succesful `docker build -t awslabs/bedrock-kb-retrieval-mcp-server .`:

```file
# ficticious `.env` file with AWS temporary credentials
AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID=ASIAIOSFODNN7EXAMPLE
AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=wJalrXUtnFEMI/K7MDENG/bPxRfiCYEXAMPLEKEY
AWS_SESSION_TOKEN=AQoEXAMPLEH4aoAH0gNCAPy...truncated...zrkuWJOgQs8IZZaIv2BXIa2R4Olgk
```

```json
  {
    "mcpServers": {
      "awslabs.bedrock-kb-retrieval-mcp-server": {
        "command": "docker",
        "args": [
          "run",
          "--rm",
          "--interactive",
          "--env",
          "FASTMCP_LOG_LEVEL=ERROR",
          "--env",
          "KB_INCLUSION_TAG_KEY=optional-tag-key-to-filter-kbs",
          "--env",
          "AWS_REGION=us-east-1",
          "--env-file",
          "/full/path/to/file/above/.env",
          "awslabs/bedrock-kb-retrieval-mcp-server:latest"
        ],
        "env": {},
        "disabled": false,
        "autoApprove": []
      }
    }
  }
```

NOTE: Your credentials will need to be kept refreshed from your host

## Limitations

- Results with `IMAGE` content type are not included in the KB query response.
- The `reranking` parameter requires additional permissions, Amazon Bedrock model access, and is only available in specific regions.

Commit message:

docs: update documentation for BEDROCK_KB_RERANKING_ENABLED environment variable

src/bedrock-kb-retrieval-mcp-server/README.md, after:

# Amazon Bedrock Knowledge Base Retrieval MCP Server

MCP server for accessing Amazon Bedrock Knowledge Bases

## Features

### Discover knowledge bases and their data sources

- Find and explore all available knowledge bases
- Search for knowledge bases by name or tag
- List data sources associated with each knowledge base

### Query knowledge bases with natural language

- Retrieve information using conversational queries
- Get relevant passages from your knowledge bases
- Access citation information for all results

### Filter results by data source

- Focus your queries on specific data sources
- Include or exclude specific data sources
- Prioritize results from specific data sources

### Rerank results

- Improve relevance of retrieval results
- Use Amazon Bedrock reranking capabilities
- Sort results by relevance to your query

## Prerequisites

### Installation Requirements

1. Install `uv` from [Astral](https://docs.astral.sh/uv/getting-started/installation/) or the [GitHub README](https://github.com/astral-sh/uv#installation)
2. Install Python using `uv python install 3.10`

### AWS Requirements

1. **AWS CLI Configuration**: You must have the AWS CLI configured with credentials and an AWS_PROFILE that has access to Amazon Bedrock and Knowledge Bases
2. **Amazon Bedrock Knowledge Base**: You must have at least one Amazon Bedrock Knowledge Base with the tag key `mcp-multirag-kb` with a value of `true`
3. **IAM Permissions**: Your IAM role/user must have appropriate permissions to:
   - List and describe knowledge bases
   - Access data sources
   - Query knowledge bases

### Reranking Requirements

If you intend to use reranking functionality, your Bedrock Knowledge Base needs additional permissions:

1. Your IAM role must have permissions for both `bedrock:Rerank` and `bedrock:InvokeModel` actions
2. The Amazon Bedrock Knowledge Bases service role must also have these permissions
3. Reranking is only available in specific regions. Please refer to the official [documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/bedrock/latest/userguide/rerank-supported.html) for an up to date list of supported regions.
4. Enable model access for the available reranking models in the specified region.

### Controlling Reranking

Reranking can now be globally enabled or disabled using the `BEDROCK_KB_RERANKING_ENABLED` environment variable:

- Set to `true` (default): Enables reranking for all queries unless explicitly disabled
- Set to `false`: Disables reranking for all queries unless explicitly enabled

The environment variable accepts various formats for specifying false: 'false', '0', 'no', or 'off' (case-insensitive).

This setting provides a global default, while individual API calls can still override it by explicitly setting the `reranking` parameter.

For detailed instructions on setting up knowledge bases, see:

- [Create a knowledge base](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/bedrock/latest/userguide/knowledge-base-create.html)
- [Managing permissions for Amazon Bedrock knowledge bases](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/bedrock/latest/userguide/knowledge-base-prereq-permissions-general.html)
- [Permissions for reranking in Amazon Bedrock](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/bedrock/latest/userguide/rerank-prereq.html)

## Installation

Here are some ways you can work with MCP across AWS, and we'll be adding support to more products including Amazon Q Developer CLI soon: (e.g. for Amazon Q Developer CLI MCP, `~/.aws/amazonq/mcp.json`):

```json
{
  "mcpServers": {
    "awslabs.bedrock-kb-retrieval-mcp-server": {
      "command": "uvx",
      "args": ["awslabs.bedrock-kb-retrieval-mcp-server@latest"],
      "env": {
        "AWS_PROFILE": "your-profile-name",
        "AWS_REGION": "us-east-1",
        "FASTMCP_LOG_LEVEL": "ERROR",
        "KB_INCLUSION_TAG_KEY": "optional-tag-key-to-filter-kbs",
        "BEDROCK_KB_RERANKING_ENABLED": "true"
      },
      "disabled": false,
      "autoApprove": []
    }
  }
}
```

or docker after a succesful `docker build -t awslabs/bedrock-kb-retrieval-mcp-server .`:

```file
# ficticious `.env` file with AWS temporary credentials
AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID=ASIAIOSFODNN7EXAMPLE
AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=wJalrXUtnFEMI/K7MDENG/bPxRfiCYEXAMPLEKEY
AWS_SESSION_TOKEN=AQoEXAMPLEH4aoAH0gNCAPy...truncated...zrkuWJOgQs8IZZaIv2BXIa2R4Olgk
```

```json
  {
    "mcpServers": {
      "awslabs.bedrock-kb-retrieval-mcp-server": {
        "command": "docker",
        "args": [
          "run",
          "--rm",
          "--interactive",
          "--env",
          "FASTMCP_LOG_LEVEL=ERROR",
          "--env",
          "KB_INCLUSION_TAG_KEY=optional-tag-key-to-filter-kbs",
          "--env",
          "BEDROCK_KB_RERANKING_ENABLED=true",
          "--env",
          "AWS_REGION=us-east-1",
          "--env-file",
          "/full/path/to/file/above/.env",
          "awslabs/bedrock-kb-retrieval-mcp-server:latest"
        ],
        "env": {},
        "disabled": false,
        "autoApprove": []
      }
    }
  }
```

NOTE: Your credentials will need to be kept refreshed from your host

## Limitations

- Results with `IMAGE` content type are not included in the KB query response.
- The `reranking` parameter requires additional permissions, Amazon Bedrock model access, and is only available in specific regions.
