samples/mcp-integration-with-kb/README.md, before:

# MCP Integration with Amazon Bedrock Knowledge Bases

This repository outlines a basic implementation of the [Model Context Protocol](https://modelcontextprotocol.io/) integration with Amazon Bedrock Knowledge Bases

## Overview

There are two parts to this implementation:

1. The `user_interfaces/chat_bedrock_st.py` file, which handles the Streamlit/User Interface for the chatbot
2. The `client_server.py` file, which handles the MCP client and server implementation

The exact MCP server code leveraged can be found in the [src/bedrock-kb-retrieval-mcp-server](../../src/bedrock-kb-retrieval-mcp-server/) folder.

### Architecture

![Architecture](./assets/simplified-mcp-flow-diagram.png)

## Setup

### Prerequisites

- The [uv](https://docs.astral.sh/uv/getting-started/installation/) package manager
- AWS Account with Bedrock access and proper IAM permissions
- A Bedrock Knowledge Base
  - For a quick reference Knowledge Base setup, check out the [e2e RAG solution via CDK](https://github.com/aws-samples/amazon-bedrock-samples/tree/main/rag/knowledge-bases/features-examples/04-infrastructure/e2e_rag_using_bedrock_kb_cdk) repo. This will set you up with everything you need - IAM roles, vector storage (either OpenSearch Serverless or Aurora PostgreSQL), and a fully configured Knowledge Base with sample data. The Knowledge Base is the only component you'll really need for this implementation.

### Installation

1. Clone the repository.

```bash
git clone <INSERT_REPO_URL>
```

2. Copy the .env.example file to .env and add your AWS credentials.

```bash
cp .env.example .env
```

3. Open two different terminals and install the dependencies in each.

```bash
uv sync
```

then activate the virtual environment

```bash
source .venv/bin/activate
```

4. In one of the terminals, run the FastAPI server

```bash
uvicorn clients.client_server:app --reload
```

5. In the other terminal, run the Streamlit app

```bash
streamlit run user_interfaces/chat_bedrock_st.py
```

6. The chatbot should now be running on [http://localhost:8501/](http://localhost:8501/)

## Usage

Grab your Bedrock Knowledge Base ID from the Bedrock Knowledge Base console and add it to the UI first on the left hand side menu.

Ask away!

## Troubleshooting

Logs are available in the terminal where you ran the FastAPI server, outlining various steps and actions taken by the server.

If you see an error about `boto3` or `streamlit` not being found, it is likely because you did not activate the virtual environment:

```bash
uv sync
source .venv/bin/activate
```

Commit message:

docs(samples): update README with AWS Bedrock link and clone instructions

samples/mcp-integration-with-kb/README.md, after:

# MCP Integration with Amazon Bedrock Knowledge Bases

This repository outlines a basic implementation of the [Model Context Protocol](https://modelcontextprotocol.io/) integration with Amazon Bedrock Knowledge Bases

## Overview

There are two parts to this implementation:

1. The `user_interfaces/chat_bedrock_st.py` file, which handles the Streamlit/User Interface for the chatbot
2. The `client_server.py` file, which handles the MCP client and server implementation

The exact MCP server code leveraged can be found in the [src/bedrock-kb-retrieval-mcp-server](../../src/bedrock-kb-retrieval-mcp-server/) folder.

### Architecture

![Architecture](./assets/simplified-mcp-flow-diagram.png)

## Setup

### Prerequisites

- The [uv](https://docs.astral.sh/uv/getting-started/installation/) package manager
- AWS Account with Bedrock access and proper IAM permissions - [Getting Started with Amazon Bedrock](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/bedrock/latest/userguide/getting-started.html)
- A Bedrock Knowledge Base
  - For a quick reference Knowledge Base setup, check out the [e2e RAG solution via CDK](https://github.com/aws-samples/amazon-bedrock-samples/tree/main/rag/knowledge-bases/features-examples/04-infrastructure/e2e_rag_using_bedrock_kb_cdk) repo. This will set you up with everything you need - IAM roles, vector storage (either OpenSearch Serverless or Aurora PostgreSQL), and a fully configured Knowledge Base with sample data. The Knowledge Base is the only component you'll really need for this implementation.

### Installation

1. Clone the repository.

```bash
git clone https://github.com/awslabs/mcp.git
```

2. Navigate to the sample directory and copy the .env.example file to .env and add your AWS credentials.

```bash
cd mcp/samples/mcp-integration-with-kb
cp .env.example .env
```

3. Open two different terminals and install the dependencies in each.

```bash
uv sync
```

then activate the virtual environment

```bash
source .venv/bin/activate
```

4. In one of the terminals, run the FastAPI server

```bash
uvicorn clients.client_server:app --reload
```

5. In the other terminal, run the Streamlit app

```bash
streamlit run user_interfaces/chat_bedrock_st.py
```

6. The chatbot should now be running on [http://localhost:8501/](http://localhost:8501/)

## Usage

Grab your Bedrock Knowledge Base ID from the Bedrock Knowledge Base console and add it to the UI first on the left hand side menu.

Ask away!

## Troubleshooting

Logs are available in the terminal where you ran the FastAPI server, outlining various steps and actions taken by the server.

If you see an error about `boto3` or `streamlit` not being found, it is likely because you did not activate the virtual environment:

```bash
uv sync
source .venv/bin/activate
```
